---
title: The case for dumb TVs
draft: true
---
![](/images/dumb-tv.jpg)[^1]

[^1]: An antique CRT television left on the sidewalk in Cambridge, MA. (CC by SA
      4.0 AsankaÂ Herath)

You're looking to buy a TV. The word "Smart" is plastered all over your search
results and across the bright crips displays at your local retail store. Much
like the word "Stereo" in the 90's, it seems unwise to buy a device that doesn't
sport this buzzword.

Let me try and alleviate the anxiety you feel about choosing a "dumb" TV.

A decent 4K television has to calculate colors for 8.3 million pixels per frame
for at least 60 frames per second. That's roughly half a billion pixels to
calculate every second. Then we have audio, and a demanding decoding pipeline
for HD content. Even the bare minimum functionality requires some heavy
processing power.

It's tempting then to upsell the consumer by bundling some subscription services
of the internet connected variety. What possible harm could there be? Let's
count the ways.

***

## Life Expectancy

Life expectancy of a LCD TV is said to be around 60,000 to 100,000 hours based
on [extensive research conducted on the internet][rs]. This gives your new TV at
least 20 years of life assuming it's switched on 8 hours a day, everyday.

The smart innards of a TV, on the other hand, has a lifetime limited by how long
the hardware and software embedded in it is supported by their respective
manufacturers and publishers. Going by how smartphones are doing, this is at
best 3 years.

[rs]: https://www.google.com/search?q=how+long+does+a+LCD+tv+last

What happens for the remaining 17 years? You have a TV with defunct smarts that
no longer receives security or functional updates. And no, putting your TV
behind a good firewall doesn't improve the security situation.

If security doesn't bite you first, you would have a smart TV that can't access
content from newer publishers. Five years down the road, your smart TV will feel
practically ancient.

You can still keep your TV on life support after the first few years by plugging
in a recent dongle like Google Chromecast, Amazon Fire TV, and the like. But by
this point, the once great smarts becomes an increasingly risky liability.

***

## Privacy


